feat(bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers): add EoL for Personal Templates (#7797)
ovh/docs: pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/end-of-life-for-personal-installation-templates/guide.en-gb.md

### Step 2: 7th of October 2025<a name="step-2"></a>

- Customers will no longer be able to access their personal templates.
- All data related to personal templates will be deleted.

Please note that customers will still have the email from the 17th of June 2025 with technical documentation based on their personal templates data to help them migrate to the new API call.

## Instructions<a name="instructions"></a>

The following section contains specific information depending on whether you have an OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi account and whether you are currently using the control panel or the API to install OSes on your dedicated server.

### Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi Control Panel<a name="ux"></a>

The `Install one of your templates`{.action} wizard to install an operating system on a dedicated server has already been removed since mid-April 2025. If you were using that wizard you have 3 long-term possibilities:

> - keep using the Web interface (not recommended if you plan to automate your OS installations): manually apply all customizations in the OS install wizard (former `Install from an OVHcloud template`{.action} wizard) every time you need to perform an installation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- keep using the Web interface (not recommended if you plan on automating your OS installations): manually apply all customizations in the OS install wizard (former `Install from an OVHcloud template`{.action} wizard) every time you need to perform an installation,
```

- write a script that uses the API (best for automation, but requires programming skills): see section [Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi API](#api) below,

> - use the API console (good tradeoff): use old API call until the 17th of June 2025 and then use new API call with provided payloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- use the API console (good tradeoff): use old API call until the 17th of June 2025 and then use new API call with the provided payloads.
```

The end of the personal templates feature will simplify OS installation on dedicated servers. Indeed, the new API call [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/reinstall](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) brings all the possible customizations that the old API call [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/install/start) was not able to offer without the need to first define a personal template under [/me/installationTemplate](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fme&branch=v1#get-/me/installationTemplate).

The following comparison gives you an idea of the reduced number of API calls to achieve a complex customization configuration involving hardware RAID and custom partitioning: from `4+n`{.action} calls (where `n`{.action} is the number of partitions you have defined in your partitioning layout) to 1 single API call.

![API calls comparison](images/api-calls-comparison.png){.thumbnail}

> As you can see, everything becomes streamlined, eliminating the the need for heavy setups.

Reviewer: @tcpdumpfbacke setup is uncountable here. Can you please revert this change (and drop "the the" which I just noticed).

Reviewer 2: Done. Shouldn't it be "eliminating the need for a heavy setup." ?

Reviewer: @Y0Coss as "setup" is uncountable, it should not be prefixed with "a" because there isn't "a" setup. I'm not a native speaker but I think "setup" on its own is more natural.
If you were to say "The software requires minimum setup", you wouldn't be counting setups either.
